1.Hypothesis:
Chunked Prefill method: Chunked prefill may reduce prefill blocking and improve request interleaving fairness by splitting long prompts into smaller scheduling units. This may reduce TTFT under long-prompt workloads and improve system responsiveness under moderate concurrency.
Continuous method: Lower TTFT and a higher prefill time.

2.Result Analysis
(1)When concurrency is greater than 10, the main factor of model performance is the average queue time(>90%). When concurrency is less than or equal to 10, queue time becomes negligible, making prefill time the dominant component of TTFT.
(2)When concurrency is greater than or equal to 30, chunked prefill model achieves slightly better total completed requests performance (~1% improvement) under high concurrency workloads. When concurrency is less than 30, continuous model has a better total completed requests performance.
(3)Chunked prefill model has a clearly better performance in average prefill time than continuous model(50~60% improvement).

3.Difference With Hypothesis
In the previous hypothesis, continuous model has lower TTFT. The result shows that chunked prefill could lower the total TTFT, but when concurrency is high, the main factor is queuing time. However, when concurrency is 10, continuous model has a better total completed requests. This shows that, under low concurrency, the additional scheduling overhead introduced by chunked prefill may reduce request completion efficiency.

4.Applicable Conditions
The following conditions make chunked prefill model applicable:
(1)When prompt lengths are large and reducing prefill latency is more important than maximizing request completion efficiency.
(2)When concurrency is high and the number of total completed requests needs improvement.
(3)Prompt texts length is larger than max-num-batched-tokens.

5.Conclusion
Chunked prefill model could lower prefill time and slightly improve TTFT under certain workloads. However, when the concurrency is high, the main bottleneck is the queuing time. Under this situation, any optimization in model inference layer is limited and the real solution is lower queuing time(triggering horizontal expansion based on queue depth through KEDA).