1.Hypothesis
Prefix model should achieve lower TTFT and higher GPU cache hit rate because prompts share the same system prefix. Higher cache hit rates may reduce repeated prefill computation and GPU pressure, leading to improved latency and throughput performance.

2.Result Analysis
(1)Prefix model markedly improves TTFT performance( both P50 and P99). When there is a high concurrency, the improvement could be more significant(1.96~18.74). Under high concurrency, GPU resources become the main bottleneck, causing queueing time to increase significantly. Prefix cache could reduce prefill workload and reduce queuing time significantly.
(2)The most significant difference is GPU cache hit rate. Prefix model have nearly 90% hit rate while Non-prefix model is 0. The difference is caused by shared prompt prefixes in the prefix model workload, while the non-prefix workload does not contain reusable prompt prefixes. 
(3)Prefix model have higher throughput and completed requests(34~116% improvement). This shows that prefix model could handle more requests in the same time. This indicates that reducing repeated prefill computation allows the system to process more requests within the same GPU resource constraints.

3.Difference With Hypothesis
Generally, the result could meet the hypothesis. However, the performance improvement is significantly beyond expectation. What is more, non-prefix model needs more KV cache usage. The reason is that shared prefix KV states can be reused across requests in the prefix model workload.

4.Applicable Conditions
The following conditions make prefix model applicable:
(1)The prompt contents have long similar prefixes.
(2)The concurrency is high and GPU is under pressure.
(3)The shared prefix can fill at least one KV cache block.

5.Conclusion
Prefix caching model can achieve significant performance improvement with relatively low additional resource overhead, especially under GPU resource pressure. However, it has price. This model requires high repetition prefix and extra GPU cache for prefix cache.